#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:3
After pass 2, your 'preprocessing' checklist line is still empty. What does that tell you, and where do you look next?	The paper does not state it; it lives in the repository (a transform, a prompt file, a config) or nowhere. Pass 3 opens the code; if absent there too, the gap becomes a line of your report.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-1
The CLIP paper's headline figure says zero-shot CLIP matches a linear probe. Why is that not the number you reproduce, and what is?	A figure of averages across datasets cannot be checked to a tolerance. You reproduce one cell with a metric and a test set: Table 11, ViT-B/32, CIFAR-10, 91.3 %.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-1
Name the four places, most likely first, where a reproduction detail hides outside the main text.	Appendix tables, the code repository, footnotes and captions, and a cited paper whose protocol is 'followed'.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-1
Write the five checklist lines for a table cell from memory, and say which one most often takes three sources to fill.	Data (split, size), preprocessing (transforms, prompts, tokenization), model (architecture, which weights), metric (what is counted), and the claimed number. Preprocessing is assembled from paper, appendix and code.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-2
A paper reports 84.0 % accuracy on 2,000 test images. Compute the standard error and say whether your 82.9 % reproduces it.	\(\sqrt{0.84 \times 0.16 / 2000} = 0.0082\), so 0.8 points; two standard errors give ±1.6. 82.9 is 1.1 below: inside the band, so it reproduces.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-2
Two runs give 93.6 and 89.8 for 'ViT-B/32 on CIFAR-10'. What checklist line explains the spread, and which run reproduces the paper's 91.3?	The model line: same architecture, different weights (LAION-trained versus OpenAI's). Neither lands within tolerance, but only the OpenAI-weights run is a reproduction attempt.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-2
You have the README's command. Name the four stations you read next, in order, and the question each answers.	Entry point (what runs, in what order), config file (which settings the paper never mentioned), data flow backwards from the metric (what counts as preprocessing), and the metric line (what exactly is counted).	learnml week-11 week-11-day-3
A config file sets dropout = 0.2 and the paper never mentions dropout. Is that a checklist line, and what do you do with it?	Yes: an unstated setting the run depends on. Copy it into your model line with the file name, and treat any change to it as a candidate gap explanation.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-3
In nanoGPT, why does max_iters = 5000 in a config file change the run, when train.py sets max_iters = 600000?	The config file is executed after the defaults and its assignments overwrite the globals, so the last assignment wins.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-3
Your reproduction lands at 10.2 % on a 10-class task. Which step of the order do you go to, and what single print statement do you run?	Near chance means the labels or the metric are misaligned: step 1 or 2. Print five predicted labels next to five true labels and check the class order.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-4
Why does the debugging order put preprocessing before model weights, when weights feel more important?	Preprocessing checks cost one print and explain most few-point gaps; a weight mismatch is rarer and its check (downloading another checkpoint) costs more.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-4
A gap of 0.3 points remains after steps 1–5 confirm everything. Do you keep going, and what do you write?	Only if the tolerance says 0.3 is real. Otherwise write 'residue 0.3, within tolerance, not pursued'; if outside, steps 6 and 7 cost one run each.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-4
List the six sentences of a reproduction report in order, and say which one must contain a measured number rather than a guess.	Target, setup, result, verdict, explanation, residue. The explanation must quote how much each change moved the number, from a run; a guess belongs in the residue sentence as the next check.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-5
What is the difference between the reproduction report and the run-log row, and why keep both?	The report interprets: verdict, explanation, residue. The run-log row is the recipe: commit hash, config, seed, versions, result. The row lets you rerun; the report tells you whether to.	learnml week-11 week-11-day-5
Your reproduction is 1.5 points outside tolerance and you have no explanation. Write the residue sentence.	'Residue: 1.5 points unexplained after ruling out data, metric and weights; next check is the preprocessing transform (resize and interpolation), about 10 minutes.'	learnml week-11 week-11-day-5
What does <b>three-pass reading</b> mean?	Reading a paper with one question per pass: pass one for the claim and which table, pass two for figures, tables and details, pass three with the code open.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>reproduction</b> mean?	Getting a paper&#x27;s number again from the same recipe: same data, preprocessing, model and metric. Counts as done when the result lands inside a stated tolerance.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>tolerance</b> mean?	How far a reproduced number may land from the claimed one and still count as the same: two test-set standard errors, or the seed spread, whichever is larger.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>entry point</b> mean?	The script the README tells you to run. Read once, top to bottom, it shows the order: config, data, model, loop, evaluation, print.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>config file</b> mean?	The file of settings the entry point reads, whose values overwrite its defaults. Every setting in it is either a checklist line or a detail the paper left out.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>data flow</b> mean?	The path examples take from a file on disk through loading, preprocessing and the model to the line that computes the metric. Read it backwards from the metric.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>debugging order</b> mean?	A fixed sequence of checks when a number is off, cheapest and likeliest first: metric, data, preprocessing, model, seeds, versions, hardware. Stop at the step that moves the number.	learnml week-11 vocab
What does <b>reproduction report</b> mean?	One paragraph, six sentences: target, setup, result, verdict, explanation, residue. Committed next to the config and seed so the number can be judged and rerun.	learnml week-11 vocab
